[EDU-3995] feat: add zone and account ctas (#785)
aziontech/docs: src/content/docs/en/pages/guides/intelligent-dns/run-dig-command.mdx

permalink: /documentation/products/guides/run-the-dig-command/
---

import Button from '~/components/Button.astro'

**Dig** or **dig command** is a command-line tool for querying domain information on Domain Name System (DNS) servers. Originally called *Domain Information Groper*, the command is part of BIND, a group of networking tools maintained by the Internet Systems Consortium (ISC).

The `dig` command is commonly used for network and domain troubleshooting, and also other DNS operations. It's also a multiplatform and an alternative to the discontinued `nslookup`.

> If you have a zone configured in **Azion Intelligent DNS**, you can test it to see if your zone is working properly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have a zone configured in **Azion Intelligent DNS**, you can test it to check if your zone is working properly.
```

Reviewer: or confirm/validate

This response is quite different from the simple request and presents all DNS servers involved in the resolution of a domain, passing through the Top-Level Domain (TLD) servers until reaching the last authoritative server.

### Using dig to test Azion zones and edge applications

> If you've [configured a zone](/en/documentation/products/guides/secure/intelligent-dns-configure-main-settings/), you can use the dig command to test how and if it's receiving proper traffic. For example, if you've configured a load balance with DNS record, you can test and see if the load balance is working properly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you've [configured a zone](/en/documentation/products/guides/secure/intelligent-dns-configure-main-settings/), you can [use the dig command](/en/documentation/products/guides/run-the-dig-command/) to test how and if it's receiving proper traffic. For example, if you've configured a load balance with DNS record, you can test and see if the load balance is working properly.
```

> If you've [configured a zone](/en/documentation/products/guides/secure/intelligent-dns-configure-main-settings/), you can use the dig command to test how and if it's receiving proper traffic. For example, if you've configured a load balance with DNS record, you can test and see if the load balance is working properly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you've [configured a zone](/en/documentation/products/guides/secure/intelligent-dns-configure-main-settings/), you can use the dig command to test how and if it's receiving proper traffic. For example, if you've configured a load balance with a DNS record, you can test and check if the load balance is working properly.
```

<Button href="/en/documentation/products/guides/secure/load-balance-dns/#testing-your-balanced-record" text="test balanced record" variant="secondary"></Button>

> You can also check the latency of a web application with the dig command is one of the ways of validating Azion Edge Computing service. For example, you can compare the latency of your application, served by cloud and by Azion Edge Computing platform.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also check the latency of a web application with the dig command to validate the Azion Edge Computing service. For example, you can compare the latency of your application, served by cloud and by Azion Edge Computing platform.
```
